1. Broke means, if you lost your primary souurce of income today, you wouldn't be able to maintain the lifestyle you have become accustomed to, because you have no assets to rely on.
2. Ultimately, how we behave with money is deeply rooted in how we think about money--- and fear can be crippling. But what you deny or ignore, you delay. What you face and accept you conquer.
3. Most people dont know where the money they earn goes. what percentage of your income goes to food? transportation? clothes? Write down everything you spent your money on in the last month. 
Seperate your findings into wants and needs. Limit your wants and prioritize your needs.If you dont treat the money you earn with respect, it will leave you with no respect.
RECAPTURE THE MOMENT
4. Debt can be a useful tool to attain fianancial success, but how you use it matters. 
Wealthy people use debts as a tool to leverage their investments and grow their cash flow but poor people use debts to buy things that make rich people richer. 
Only borrow to acquire an asset that will appreciate in value.
5. A smart person doesnt wait for financial surprises, He systematically saves towards her emergency fund. Because he knows that this is the foundation of his financial journey.
RAINY DAY FUND--- money put away on a consistent basis, completely seperate from bills and savings. Be deliberate & intentional.
6. Emergency Fund: How much will you need to survive if you lost your job or income.Here are some steps:
* Strictly define emergencies
* Shore up your emergency fund
* Invest in low risk ventures

Sometimes, taking control of your money means making short term sacrifices, to achieve long term gain. THE PLAN IS USUALLY EASY BUT THE EXECUTION CAN BE CHALLENGING.
It requires small sustainable changes in our lifestyle choices that add up over time.
Your bank statement should reflect your values and your goals. Make sure the money you are earning is going in the direction you intended, not in the direction your 
friends, your family or society are driving you in.
IF I AM SERIOUS ABOUT SAVING MONEY, I HAVE TO BE ON THE ROAD TO CHANGING MY WHOLE LIFESTYLE.
7. The most popular these days to earning more is become an entrepeneur. Start your own business. The reality is, not everyone is cut out to be a boss. My idea? find your purpose.
Your purpose is the thing that drives you to become successful. Just be sure that your idea solves a problem that people wil be wiilling to pay for.
INSURANCE
8. Write a new money script. Commit to a new money story that reinforces positive beliefs that will help enhance your financial health.
9. Identify your core money values...do they match your lifestyle

THE WORLD OF INVESTMENT

1.Establish your investment goals
2.Develop an investent strategy
3.Determine your risk profile
4. Pick an investment firm
 The Cardinal Rule: Do not invest in things you dont understand